README.md, before:

# Welcome to Cascadia

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Cascadia is a hybrid, layer-1 blockchain built to explore the nature of incentives on network effects, starting with ve-tokenomics.  Our mission is to create a chain that a) people actually use and b) economically makes sense. As trailblazers of the neo-cybernetic movement, we're committed to developing innovative solutions to web3's problems via social and artificial intelligence.

Cascadia is an EVM-compatible network optimized for fairness, speed, and security. We've adopted the Tendermint DPoS consensus due to its flexibility and ease of customization and embraced the IBC protocol, enabling seamless data exchange across sovereign networks.  Cascadia seeks to create a unique value proposition by diving deeper than the consensus layer, to explore emergent behaviors and incentive alignment within complex adaptive systems.

Cascadia's anticipated success can be attributed to the unwavering commitment of over 500 global contributors.  We're immensely proud of our talented and diverse community and are confident that together, we'll redefine what's possible with blockchain technology.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-474: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Cascadia

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Cascadia is a layer-1 blockchain building the "incentive layer" of distributed networks. The incentive layer is one of the most, if not the most, fundamentally important DLT components, affecting all elements of the blockstack.

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/cascadia_pitchdeck_v10 (2)_Page_31.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

However, this topic has largely been ignored to date given the difficulty of tackling this subject matter. Proper incentive design requires a fundamental reexamination of blockchain architecture from first principles.

Cascadia hybrid, layer-1 blockchain built to explore the nature of incentives on network effects, starting with ve-tokenomics.  Our mission is to create a chain that a) people actually use and b) economically makes sense. As trailblazers of the neo-cybernetic movement, we're committed to developing innovative solutions to web3's problems via social and artificial intelligence.

Cascadia is an EVM-compatible network optimized for fairness, speed, and security. We've adopted the Tendermint DPoS consensus due to its flexibility and ease of customization and embraced the IBC protocol, enabling seamless data exchange across sovereign networks.  Cascadia seeks to create a unique value proposition by diving deeper than the consensus layer, to explore emergent behaviors and incentive alignment within complex adaptive systems.

Cascadia's anticipated success can be attributed to the unwavering commitment of over five hundred global contributors.  We're immensely proud of our talented and diverse community and are confident that together, we'll redefine what's possible with blockchain technology.
